# Implementing Custom Models

To implement a custom model you need to implement
the [`CustomPredictorInterface`](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_interface.py).

An example implementation is provided as the [`CustomPredictorImpl`](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_impl.py)
class.

## Implementing single prompt model

A simple type of Text-to-SQL model is using a single prompt to LLM to translate a
question into a SQL query given the database schema.

The  [`CustomPredictorImpl`](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_impl.py) is already implemented
to be used as these kind of models.

You can further customize it in the following ways:

#### Customize LLM parameters

You can customize the parameters sent to LLM in each call by implementing
the `llm_params` property in [`CustomPredictorImpl`](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_impl.py#L9).

#### Customize the prompt

You can just customize the input prompt to the LLM by editing the
prompt template [`custom_prompt.py`](../src/model/custom/custom_prompt.py).

This prompt is filled with the question and YAML representation of the
database schema and sent to LLM.

#### Customize prompt construction

You can further customize the prompt construction by customizing the
implementation of the [`_get_prompt`](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_impl.py#L15) function.

#### Customize SQL extraction

You can also customize function to extract SQL query from output
of the LLM by adjusting the implementation of the [
`_process_llm_response`](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_impl.py#L19).

## Implementing Advanced Model

To implement more advanced model that go beyond a single LLM prompt,
you need a fully customized implementation of
the [CustomPredictorInterface](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_interface.py).

To do so, in addition to `llm_params`, `_get_prompt`, and `_process_llm_response` functions, you also
need to implement the [`_run_interal`](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_interface.py#L20) function.

Here we briefly describe this function and how it works.

### `_run_internal` implementation

We walk through the implementation provided
in [CustomPredictorInterface](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_interface.py#L20-L38).

On a high-level this implementation prompts LLM and generates SQL queries for each input data point.

It includes two main mechanisms:

1) Processing inputs and generating the SQL queries (lines 33-37).
2) Saving the SQLs into a file (line 39).

To implement a custom model that may involve extra processing or LLM calls,
we can add more steps by following the same way the step 1 is implemented.

The implementation for step 1 consist of three sub-tasks:

1) Generate an input file to feed into LLM ([_gen_batch_file](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_interface.py#L32)).
2) Send the file to LLM and extract the raw
   responses ([_ask_file](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_interface.py#L34)).
3) Post process the LLM raw responses and extract the desired
   output ([process_responses](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_interface.py#L36)).

#### 1- [`_gen_batch_file(self, file_path: str, gen_req: BatchRequestGenerator)`](../src/model/predictor.py#L78)

This function generates a file that contains requests to LLM.
Each request is generated by the `gen_req` function passed in.
So, you need to write custom `gen_req` function and then call `_gen_batch_file` using
your custom function.
We can inspect [` __generate_req(self, i: int, db_id: str, question: str) -> BatchInputRequest`](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_interface.py#L41)
as an example `gen_req` function.

This function is called on each input data.
It is given the index of data in the input dataset `i`,
database identifier `db_id`, and the question `question`.
It should return a [`BatchInputRequest`](../src/gpt/models.py#46) object.

#### 2- [`_ask_file(self, in_path: str, out_path: str)`](../src/model/predictor.py#75)

This function submits the file containing the requests to LLM stored in `in_path` (from previous step) and
saves the raw LLM responses in the `out_path`.

#### 3- [`process_responses(file_path: str, response_processor: ResponseProcessor = identity_processor) -> List[str]`](../src/model/predictor.py#105)

This function reads the file that contains raw responses of LLM `file_path`,
process each response using the `response_processsor` function.
It then returns a list of processed outputs, one item for each input data point.

An implementation of `response_processor` included
in [`src/model/custom_predictor_impl.py`](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_impl.py#L19).
This function receives the index of data point `i` and the raw content of the response `content` and returns
a string that is processed output.

Since in the `CustomPredictorImpl` we only have a single prompt to LLM, after
processing the LLM output (line 36), we have the final SQL queries.

The final step requires writing these queries into the output file using the [`_save_sql`](../src/model/custom/custom_predictor_impl.py#L38) function.

## Batch File Programming Model

To use LLM APIs, and more specifically, the OpenAI's API, there are two options: standard synchronous API and batch API.
Standard API is used to send each request one-by-one separate HTTP requests.
However, with Batch API, multiple requests are written in a file, and then the file is submitted to OpenAI
in order to be processed. The main benefit of BatchAPI is the reduced cost which is half of the price of standard
API.

In SQLyzr, we use a unified programming model for interacting with OpenAI, to avoid requiring developers
writing separate programs based on whether Batch API is used or not.
As a result, by using the SQLyzr programming model, users can switch between the standard and batch API
at runtime without a need for a code-change.
